To be fair, Git isn't the only source control tool available.
Some argue Git isn't the best one either: just the one that's most popular today.
For me, I think Git has solidified itself as the de facto standard source control tool,
because it is a very powerful and well-designed tool that does enough things right
that commercial alternatives aren't required for most projects.
Couple that with the fast adoption rate and now huge community around it,
makes Git a serious consideration when evaluating source control options.
With that said, let's look at how Git stacks up.
There are two main camps of source control tools: centralized and distributed.
Distributed is the modern approach to source control;
like Git, most distributed systems allow for offline or detached operations.
It also means that everyone has a copy of the repository, so there is no single point of failure.
There are also several commercially available alternatives to Git in the distributed arena.
While I haven't tested them all out, I am not aware of any
that significantly outshine Git in any compelling way.
When comparing Git to centralized systems, for the most part there isn't much to compare.
The distributed nature of Git makes Git much faster than any centralized solution;
not being tied to the network is a huge win for Git.
Decentralized systems, like Git, provide their own backups
as contributors make fully standalone copies of the repository.
And, those craving some consolidation of power in the form of a central repository,
Git can support that too; it's just not mandatory, like it is for centralized tools.
Git does have some weak points; most commercial source control tools
have nicer looking interfaces. Although, Git enjoys many third party graphical tools
and integration with many development tools,
something that normally is missing from commercial counterparts.
Within the distributed world, some argue Mercurial's approach
to treating history as sacred, is superior to Git.
I'd have to agree with that, although hiding your mistakes from your boss can come in handy.
However, Mercurial has its own issues,
like not being widely supported in developer tools,
or it's profound lack of graphical clients compared to Git.
Git suffers the same problem all distributed systems do when it comes to large binary files;
actually, any binary in Git is simply duplicated for each version.
There isn't an easy way to store only the changed bits of a binary
like you can for a text-based file, like most source code files.
This issue is made worse when Git copies the entire history
of all files it is tracking to anyone with a copy of the repository.
You can see how frequently changing large binary files can quickly bloat a Git repository.
There are several approaches for working with large binary files,
but nothing natively built into Git just yet.
For now, carefully consider how you will manage such files.
For example, do they really need to be tracked in source control at all?
While there are hundreds of possible features to compare against other tools,
the last one I'm going to look at is community support.
You can have the best tool for the job, but if there is practically no community behind it,
you'll have a hard time finding developers that already know the tool,
and it will be hard to find answers to questions regarding that tool.
Git enjoys a huge active community;
it's not hard to find online courses, tutorials, documentation,
and answers to nearly any question about Git.
Also, chances are high that any future team members
will already have some experience with Git.